a native of Oregon and a graduate of
Princeton Kimberly's rustle of The Wall
Street Journal writes the weekly column
Potomac watch she is also the author of
a number of books including most
recently resistance at all costs
how trump haters are breaking America
Kim thanks for joining us hi Peter and
welcome everyone to this special shelter
at home edition of uncommon knowledge
I'm at home in Palo Alto you're at home
where I am currently at home in my home
in Alaska I actually split my time
between DC and Alaska but the kids are
here and we decided if we were going to
shelter in place it would be nicer up
north so April still plenty of snow on
the ground
snow on the ground it was about 11
degrees last night but we're getting
lots of daylight already so it's getting
light before 6:00 and not getting dark
until after 9:00 any bears coming out of
hibernation I guess I'm running through
all my Alaska cliches in my mind here
okay next up is moose the moose are all
out in force we have it it's still a
little bit early but it's pretty soon
they'll be out all right all right so we
take me I'm in California you're in
Washington and we take both our minds
and put them in Washington two
quotations the first is you in the Wall
Street Journal on April 2nd so just a
few days ago as we as we record this
quote crises have a way of separating
the leader like from the opportunistic
the Trump administration spent this week
distributing ventilators standing up
small business loans dispatching
hospital ships erecting alternate care
facilities explaining virus modeling
revamping regulations to keep truckers
on the road and plastering the airwaves
with information about hygiene and
social distance in close quote that's
quotation one here's quotation - this is
Pete Waner in the Atlantic magazine on
March 13 to quote Trump is fundamentally
unfit for office for me Pete Waner
writing that is the paramount
consideration for electing a president
because
at some point a president will face an
unexpected crisis the crisis has arrived
in the form of the corona virus pandemic
and it's hard to name a president who
has been as overwhelmed by a crisis as
the corona virus has overwhelmed Donald
Trump Kim to just totally different
views of reality here yeah so look first
of all this is an unprecedented crisis
as we have all talked about ceaselessly
and it's hard for me to know that there
would be any leader any person or any
administration that would have been
prepared for it or known exactly what to
do so from my perspective I think the
question is when you look at Donald
Trump and by the way we all have
different views of his leadership style
but if you look at the actions and what
has actually taken place the question is
is a federal government providing some
sort of guidance and is it providing the
support it needs to the states and I
think that as a general answer to that
that has happened all right let me do
this again to another pair of quotations
same idea actually here's David Frum in
the Atlantic April 7th just a couple
days ago that the pandemic occurred is
not Trump's fault the utter
unpreparedness of the United States for
a pandemic is Trump's fault and David
went on at about 2,000 words length and
the whole article was titled
this is Trump's fault here's Holman
Jenkins in the Wall Street Journal again
April 7th same day same day there will
be much to criticize about the Trump
administration's response just as we can
never forgive FDR's baiting of Japan
with embargoes Kennedy's actions in the
Bay of Pigs or Johnson's in the Tonkin
Gulf mr. Trump is the worst president
we've ever had just like some of the
best presidents we've ever had so
there's so here's that this distinction
between Trump is singularly unsuited for
office he is singularly at fault as
opposed to Holman Jenkins who says wait
a minute this is human affairs we all
mess up over if the store
of American history is the story of
getting it wrong at first then pulling
ourselves together and finally getting
it right so where you're in the Holman
camp on this one correct all right but I
think that that's in part because look
I'd be open to somebody making the
argument that Donald Trump is singularly
unsuited for this moment the problem is
is that most of the people that are
making that case including David Frum
who you just quoted or including Pete
Waner have been making the case that
Donald Trump is singularly unsuited for
office from before the time he was even
elected so it becomes kind of difficult
to separate out the uniqueness of their
argument in this case versus their
general view that the man should never
have been elected at all that just I
mean and that's that's I think and I've
made this case many times that for the
kind of Trump haters out there after a
while your repetition begins to weaken
your argument now holmen's point I think
is very good are we making mistakes on a
daily daily occurrence in the middle of
this oh you bet you we are and one day
there's gonna be a post-mortem that is
gonna be really ugly but I would argue
that that post mortem is going to be one
that looks at a lot of mistakes that
were made by a lot of administrations on
the road to coronavirus you know whether
it was prior administrations it didn't
adequately restock her stockpiles
whether it's health agencies that over
30 years have claimed to be preparing
for pandemics and yet seem to have no
plan when this came out sure this is
gonna require complete retooling of the
way we look at these things but to say
that it's all incumbent upon one person
is just ridiculous back to the
coronavirus back to the substance of
what we're dealing with right now is one
more frankly one more Trump question
we've got I quoted David Frum and Pete
Waner of course as you know I could have
quoted any number of dozens and dozens
of people but David Frum and Pete Waner
both worked in the administration of
George W Bush three and a half years ago
before Donald Trump three or four years
ago before he declared his candidacy for
president you and I would have thought
of David Fromm and Pete Waner as broad
speaking to put a crudely
on our side limited government free
markets Republican candidates overall
tend to be better for that than
Democratic candidates and now we have it
reminds me again and again of the OJ
Simpson trial where we had the jury and
those of us watching on television
looking at exactly the same set of facts
and coming to utterly opposed
conclusions what accounts for this I
mean this but this has been happening
again since a minute he wrote a whole
book I wrote a whole hook on it and you
know I make these examples it is
astonishing to me and this is my
favorite one that you continue to hear
people say today that Donald Trump is
some sort of autocrat or tyrant or a
dictator in the making because I'm sorry
when you stop back and you look at what
his administration has actually done on
a day-to-day basis and we forget the
president's press moments forget the
things he puts on Twitter look at what's
happened at the cabinet level at the
agency level one of the biggest
deregulations in the history of the
country if not the biggest a giant tax
cut okay you can't become an autocrat by
cutting the size of your government by a
third okay I mean everything that they
have done is designed to take power away
from the federal government to devolve
it out to the states to make things more
free in the country but that's an
example of what you're saying and so now
we're getting it here in the context of
the virus which is you know Donald Trump
is suitably you know uniquely inept or
uniquely unqualified for this moment I
mean I guess a question I would have for
a lot of these people is what exactly
would they be doing differently at this
moment and I think that guess it's a big
questions about shutdown no shutdown but
again is that on Donald Trump or on this
kind of mass of so-called experts and
health community which is all over the
map itself on what the way is supposed
to be forward all right
the big takeaway here's Kim Strauss all
on March 19th
this is just great because I get
I get to I get to ask you what you meant
about this or that of course I read your
column all the time now I get to talk to
you about it
that's bad though Pierre it means I
wasn't clear enough the first time no I
just asked you to elaborate here I'm
quoting you here's the lesson of the
virus so far relying solely on
government bureaucracy is insane to the
extent America is weathering this moment
it is in norton enormous part thanks to
the strength and Genuity and flexibility
of our thriving competitive capitalist
players close quote
explain that well look to me whatever
you criticism you want a level of the
Trump administration the single most
important thing they did at the very
beginning was a philosophical decision
which is that they were not going to
attempt to deal with this on their own
they were going to embrace the private
sector and move forward in a
public-private partnership in dealing
with this brilliant because that is
exactly the way forward in this country
and it always has been federal
government when do we ever expect the
federal government to turn on a dime and
handle a major project I mean you cannot
reconcile that idea in your head with
for instance the DMB okay which is what
most of us think of in terms of
government so you turn to act as you can
and what's unique about this partnership
is that you have players out there
wanting to do stuff and then the
government's role is to get out of their
way right and so it was a CDC that
completely messed up that original
testing regimen it was we go into that a
little bit because that that gets laid
at Trump's that Trump gets blamed for
that again and again and again that's
still going on but just explain what
actually happened with yeah so what
happened is the CDC the the the World
Health Organization had its own way of
going forward with testing but lots of
different countries over the time have
always had different regimens testing
regimens the CDC has traditionally and
in this case it did it again decided it
wanted to come up with its own testing
regimen because it wanted to exert some
quality control over that the problem
was is that when all the scientists went
and did it
they must
it didn't work and it delayed us for a
couple of weeks they then turned to the
private sector which got you know
luckily we had some incredible actors
out there who've been working on this
already themselves and they were able to
stand up an effective testing regimen in
a little less than a week
thank you private sector but you see
that replicated whether it's on the
ventilator front whether it's on
personal protection equipment whether
it's on the vaccines that are getting
pushed forward I mean we have an amazing
resource the United States and just one
last thing on this it is astonishing to
me even as we are watching this and also
all of these corporations paying
employees even though they've got no
money coming in you know giving them
leave like we hear these stories of
small businesses bending over backwards
to make sure they're not laying people
off at the same time we have Bernie
Sanders giving a farewell or drop out of
the race speech this week in which he
was unrelentingly horrid to the
corporate community and suggested
everything wrong in the United States is
laid at its feet amazing
Kim so big takeaway private sector is
saving us amazing let's discuss a couple
of threats to the private sector that
the current crisis may be posing and one
is in one way or another if it happens
it'll happen in a subtle way it'll
happen press conference by press
conference probably a shift from
decision-making by the democratically
elected office holders to the unelected
public health officials and so there
have been moments when people have said
in conversations I've overheard the
Acting President of the United States is
doctor pouchy Donald Trump's instincts
were clearly against shutting down the
economy but the experts talked him into
it
well actually by the way let's start
with that with the threshold question
are you satisfied that the public health
experts did a serious and rigorous job
of weighing the costs of shutting down
the economy and throwing we now know
today's figure is six point six million
Americans out of work and all that all
the pathologies that go with
unemployment that they did a serious and
adequate job of weighing those costs
against the benefits of the lives they
believed we could save by shutting down
the economy did they do that right of
course they didn't but you know what in
fairness it's not their job to do that
right I mean look public health
officials exist to worry about public
health and we have them and they're
meant to be one part of a broader
government in which the president is
soliciting and getting the views of a
whole range of different experts and
that clearly didn't happen here and you
know I blame a little bit the media I
blame Democrats who immediately came out
of the box with his mantra you need to
listen to the scientists you need to
listen to the scientists okay we do need
to listen to the scientists but we also
need to listen to the economists who are
talking about what the balance of all of
this will be in and and what they
similar devastation by the way to health
will be of people who are homeless who
can't feed their kids who are having
mental health issues because of all of
this or the people right now I would
give this all the people who aren't
going in and getting mammograms or
colonoscopies and we were potentially
missing other cancers a few that are
being delayed right none of this is
necessarily good overall for health so
yes we're making a dent on one type of
fatality out there but at what cost
every other way that's my one concern I
think the other concern but I really
have about this is when let's say you
take the advice listen to the experts
why these particular experts you know
and I'm not again in any way diminishing
doctor foul here dr. Burks or or any of
the people that are working this
accomplished people full of goodwill
will stipulate that yeah but they it
also happens for you they just happen to
be there at this time it doesn't
necessarily mean they are the most
qualified people or there aren't other
experts out there that are similarly
like have a lot to supply here and maybe
a different view and so I think the
president's obligation really needs to
be just step back and listen to everyone
and then make the decisions
so in questions of national security and
I'm thinking this through a fumble
because I'm the the thought is occurring
to me if as I speak in questions of
national security it's the job of the
National Security Council to hold
debates right and and if necessary to
get the Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of State in the Situation Room
to thrash it out in front of the
president no such debates have been held
among public health officials in the
current crisis that's my fear right I
mean you know we have guys right out
there and you're John Ian's etus I think
under his name the right way you know an
amazing sort of look at the numbers sort
of person and he's got a very different
view of all of this I haven't really
seen anything either by the way that
suggests that that he isn't onto
something or that his view isn't as
valid as those that are being voiced in
the White House so in my perfect world
in the coming weeks we begin to have
that debate within the White House the
president would be soliciting the views
of experts across the country and not
just from the infectious disease area
but from a wide range of health and
public health disciplines because they
would all have very different here's
another threat to the private sector to
the kind of vigorous private action that
you champion from the current crisis now
quoting William Galston in the Wall
Street Journal I do is read The Wall
Street Journal antic so here's Galston
writing a couple of days ago quote no
Senate Republican not one voted against
the 2.2 trillion trillion dollar rescue
bill an unprecedented expansion of
government's cost and reach close quote
and I recall the brief press conference
that Majority Leader McConnell gave
after they voted to move that 2.2
trillion package to the President's desk
and Majority Leader McConnell was
crowing that the Senate had gone from
the bitterness of impeachment to the
common cause of this rescuing the
economy and of course you can get every
senator to vote for giving away billions
of other people's money this feels too
good to those guys they're going to want
to do it again is that not a danger it's
a huge danger I mean as I pointed out in
the in the aftermath of that vote you
had all of these senators running around
saying oh look a hundred billion dollars
for hospitals and look we're sending
this much money to individuals at home
and breaking out all of these little
categories what nobody was pointing out
was a single biggest category in that
bill six hundred billion if I recall
from your column more than six hundred
billion dollars went to government
itself and by the way that's not even
counting the money that also went to
state governments as well too that's
just the federal government's payday so
you know they walked away with the
biggest slice of this pie and you know
that was partly Democrats demanding
saying you know we knew where the money
needed to go here look anybody did where
did we need we were having a beginning
of a liquidity crisis we needed money to
get to corporations and to small
businesses to thereby encourage them to
keep their employees on the payroll and
the spare us from having more people go
to government for help that's a simple
simple concept but Democrats the price
of this was you know you got to give us
money for the food stamps turbo-charged
unemployment insurance
you should see the money that just flew
to every department in government and it
was very funny we're not NASA God not
now all under this sort of vague term
like for the purpose of preparing and
dealing with coronavirus NASA gets sixty
million dollars you're like sixty
million dollars but you're like why for
what cause
so in the end Democrats demanded it but
Republicans willingly rolled over for it
because they like big government too
many of them and nobody wanted to seem
to be the spoil sport at this spending
sorry alright um the politics of it all
this is it's may seem crass to say so in
the middle of what still feels like a
crisis but it is the fact that we have
an election in seven months yes
years William Galston again president
Trump had planned to organize his
campaign around two themes a strong
economy and a critique of the Democratic
Party for allegedly embracing socialism
that gives away Galston allegedly anyway
for allegedly creating socialism in
today's radically transformed
circumstances neither of those themes is
likely to work the economy's in a
recession and Republicans themselves
just voted for this gigantic budget
busting bill where did the politics of
this shape out yeah well if you look at
those two themes I think they're gonna
obviously have to be modulated although
I think that there is there are
corollaries to them that you are likely
to see the Trump administration adopt
look with any luck we are going to come
out of the other side of this at some
point and the economy is going to start
back up again everyone's having a debate
are we going to have a u-shaped curve on
the way back up a v-shaped curve the
bigger point is is that we're going to
have a chance to rebuild I think what
you're going to see the Trump
administration start to do is shift to
arguing that you need a sort of
conservative Trump like person in office
to maintain that that we're at a risky
time period Democrats have just
demonstrated their own view of
governance which is to just throw more
money at it and
bash on the private sector we especially
right now cannot afford to have that
happen we will not come out of this for
a long time if they are elected to the
presidency in November that's going to
be one of their arguments compelling
well I think it's gonna partly depend on
look I mean it's just simply the case
that the way people feel about their
pocketbooks plays a great deal into an
election so how bad is this how much is
the response that we put out they're
gonna stem the losses how quick is the
recovery we just don't have the answers
to that yet hmm
the journalists the question of
journalism I'll come back to the
journalists and coronavirus in a moment
but first here's something that nobody
it just it just disappeared the story
disappeared and you know where I'm going
with a subsequent to the investigation
of the FBI's requests to the FISA Court
connected to the Russia matter the
Department of Justice's Inspector
General inspected more than two dozen
other FBI wiretap applications the I G's
office went in and essentially at random
pulled together 29 that had nothing to
do with a Russia matter just to see how
the FBI was submitting these things and
the IG s conclusion there were quote
apparent errors or inadequately
supported facts
close quote in every single one and as
they say the IG the Inspector General of
the Department of Justice issued that
report in late March as you and I speak
this is 1012 days ago it got this
biggest story in a few newspapers and
it's gone what do you make of that well
I would like to point out we at the
editorial page The Wall Street Journal
did a big editorial on it because always
in all ways except the op-ed page go
ahead no but because this is a huge deal
right a hundred percent failure rate
okay and it's important because it puts
the lie to guys like Comey hoops for the
past years have said oh you know what
you can't bash on the FBI it's nothing
but a bunch of people we are straight up
you know these applications are the most
serious things we do all the time you
know when the results in December came
out of the I geez Russia report he said
well I guess we were a little sloppy
well now we find out that apparently the
FBI is general attitude is that they
don't need to follow any of the rules
and that we've got nobody watching the
shop you know and if the IG randomly
chose 29 applications and every one of
them was violating what are known as the
woods files procedures which are meant
to be the central mechanism by which you
keep the FBI on the straight and narrow
and make sure these applications are
what are known what that's supposed to
be scrupulously accurate they don't care
and then the other aspect of that idea
reporters they also found out that the
internal mechanisms that the FBI and
Department of Justice are spent supposed
to maintain to guarantee this are a joke
nobody looks at the results of the
reports that they do nobody goes back to
the individuals who filed the
applications and said hey you made
errors what's up with this there's no
consequences for anybody no
accountability and and the media doesn't
want to talk about this because it
reminds them of the Russia story which
was a humiliating experience for both
them and the Democratic Party do they
feel humiliated well they should they
should feel humiliated because they got
it a hundred percent wrong they put the
country through torture for three years
on the basis of their own hatred of a
candidate not on the basis of any facts
so a quick little summary the media got
the Russia matter entirely wrong all
these months later not a shred of
evidence has turned up that now justice
Cavanaugh was justly accused by
Christine Blasi Ford not a shred of
evidence of which I'm aware that that
was anything other than a fabrication
from beginning to end
and what else and now we have the IG
report making unambiguous that the FBI
has been sloppy in one of its most
solemn duties
correct correct and the press has no
interest in any of that well I think
it's really wise though that you bring
it up because it reminds us Peter I mean
look the press does this all the time we
are in the middle of the corona virus
you know everything all day long 24
hours seven days a week but it that's
going to fade and people are going to
remember that there are other issues
that do matter in in the running of a
country and in elections and remember we
still have the Durham report to come out
at some point - that has not disappeared
and and I keep reminding people as well
that my belief my understanding is that
he is very conscious of not wanting to
go too far into an active election
period with his results he wants to get
that out so I'd wager that's still gonna
come out sooner rather than later this
spring summer at the latest I think so I
would I would I would imagine he'd like
to have it done before the conventions
because that's is often viewed as an
official starting gun for an election so
there's a huge story coming of cacao on
the corona virus itself journalism even
on the corona virus I was thinking this
over here can I just give you a couple
of questions just questions off the top
of my head so dr. Fowler has been saying
that this thing is more lethal than the
flu and it turns out as best I
understand and I've talked to some
physician friends here at Stanford he
cannot know that he cannot know that the
lethality rate is a ratio it's the
number of people who died if I did buy
something and you can't know that it's
more lethal than the flu until you have
much more widespread testing of people
who are infected so there he is saying
something that he can't know in front of
a room full of reporters and no
reporters respectful I mean I've lived I
have to confess I have other things to
do I haven't listened to every minute of
those White House briefings but you know
I dip in from time to time as you do and
the tenor is aggressive toward the
president aggressive toward pence and
fawning toward dr.
Algie and the public health
professionals even when there's an
effete question seems to me obvious
respectful pertinent and unasked or this
question of there's a new book out by a
couple of Princeton economists you're a
Princeton woman the deccan
husband-and-wife team and they've done a
study I haven't read the book but I read
the review in The New Yorker
and they asked what is the cause of
these deaths of despair and it's not
related to age and it's not related to
race and it's not related to region it's
a result of unemployment where people
are unemployed they abuse alcohol they
abuse drugs you get domestic violence
and you get suicide
well if serious economists such as those
that Princeton are studying this matter
and running studies and quantifying it
why aren't we getting some modelling
about the the likely health effects of
throwing 7 million Americans out of work
that at least parallels the modeling
we're getting every hour it seems on the
coronavirus now that's again that
strikes me as pertinent respectful
obvious and unasked what is going on
with American journalism ya know every
day I watch those and it's so
frustrating to me because I wish I were
there to get to raise my questions to
ask of these people here's another one
that I think falls into that same
category but and you have probably
noticed this as well but everyone seems
to have a different term up there and
and I mean above among the scientists
about what it is exactly the endgame is
here what are we trying to accomplish
you know is it to slow the spread
because that's very different from
stopping the spread ok are we attempting
to eliminate this all together and then
trace any new little case of it and go
out and extinguish that because if
that's the case we're gonna be locked
down for a very very long time and we
won't have an economy at the end of it
or if we're gonna slow the spread slow
the curve lower the curve flatten
whatever you want to call it let's be
honest that if you were taking that
approach a lot more people are still
gonna get this just over a longer period
of time in which case why aren't we
opening up some of these lockers I mean
I just think that there are some really
fundamental questions that the
scientific crew up there does not get
asked so so ok I guess there's no
surprise that Peter Robinson and chemist
Rasul are in violent agreement but but
there is the larger question is these
guys have shut down the American he
can't I don't know what stories you're
hearing in Alaska
but here I live in an older house we had
some trouble with the kitchen and I had
a plumber in the other day and it turns
out that kitchen sinks are considered
essential but he had three guys show up
for work the same day it was a gas line
that needed to be repaired and some
bureaucrat in City Hall had decided to
yank the permit because after all that
was non-essential so three guys went
home that day without getting paid this
is happening over and over and over
again a vast scale they have done
something grave and shutting down the
economy and they still can't explain to
us quite what they think they're doing
it for and I don't understand why
journalists aren't on their feet asking
ouchy to clear this up what what is what
what is the failure of American
journalism well would it doesn't seem as
though bill Safire or Scotty Reston of
the old days in the New York Times would
have pushed these guys for answers well
they would have asked the tough
questions but they would have asked the
tough questions of those who are
actually driving this show which is what
you're saying about the kind of public
health officials who are standing up
there on the stage look I mean this is
one of the jokes of journalism these
days is that they pretend to be tough by
being mean to Donald Trump as if there
is any effort involved in that
whatsoever
and and is doing so they kind of hide
beneath this this lack of willingness or
lack of bravery to ask some really hard
questions also because they don't want
anything the other promise they don't
want anything to impede any narrative
that looks as though it's bad for Donald
Trump or that allows them to beat on
Donald Trump so that's what happened
with the Russia thing right I mean look
it wouldn't have been very hard to
unravel or even to just poke holes in
the ludicrousness of the ideas that they
were promoting right but it was so much
more important to them that it be true
in some way that they were willing to
spend two and a half years making things
up and that's what's weird
at today too and unfortunately when you
don't have a functioning press when you
don't have a press it does its job it is
bad for the country and so you know
people love to pile on the press I feel
find it more of a tragedy than I do
anything else
it's because it hurts all of us in the
end hmm a few last questions Kim you're
not only working at home but you've got
three kids to keep an eye on at home so
I won't thank you for your time how does
this end we've even in New York which as
it seems to be the hardest hit we the
the the peak either has or has already
taken place or appears to be taking
place quite soon and a matter of days
not weeks who gets to go back to work
and when and who's going to decide all
this that actually strikes me as a
pretty complicated sequencing problem
who gets to go first how do we sort this
out right well also who do we convince
to go first I think that that's an even
bigger problem and it's why you know in
some ways they're crazy mr. president I
volunteer right now well but what I mean
is from look we live in a federalist
system and you know what everyone keeps
asking that the president when he's
going to open the economy it's not up to
Donald Trump to open the economy okay
every one of these governors and mayor's
have made their own decisions and will
continue to make their own decisions
that being said I do think the federal
government is going to play a crucial
role in this regard it's gonna have to
push people by putting out very clear
guidance about what it suggests being
done because it's gonna take a little
bit of a prod to get some of these
governors to agree to move you know
there's look we're talking about
politics in the end here
okay I'm not in any way suggesting these
officials don't care about the people in
their state and their economies but
right now it's safer to be in lockdown
than not okay so from a political
perspective right if you're a governor
of a state do you really want to be the
first one that says okay hey y'all go
back to work and good luck and hope that
works
so you know especially when you have a
federal government that again has not
been clear to people about what the
endgame is here you know if we're in a
situation where we go back and it is
expected that this is still gonna run
through society people are still gonna
be going to the hospital we're still
gonna have outbreaks they need to start
telling everybody that now and let
people get their heads around it you
know if the if we're gonna be in la-la
land and pretend that the real goal here
is to stamp this out people aren't gonna
want to go back to work right right
right
the president tweeted I guess it was
earlier this week that he expects the
economy to rebound very quickly maybe
even bounce back to a higher growth rate
than we were enjoying earlier we were
led a little over 2% when the crisis hit
we've been at 3% a year before that I
guess had six months before that I spoke
last week though - Kevin wash former
former member of the Fed - former Fed
governor and Kevin said wrong wrong
wrong
I think it'll take longer than most
believe again I don't think the economy
can be turned on as quickly as it was
turned off I think that's in general a
great benefit of the American capitalist
system people are thinking of this
economy like a light switch we can turn
it off and then we can switch it back on
it's a living organism it has been very
very badly wounded right and it will
take time to heal
so I said Kevin what do you mean weeks
months and Kevin said quarters what do
you think no I think that there's that's
right I mean just like remember - well
we talked about people going back to
work reopening the economy you're
talking about a million different
sectors of economy some of which will be
able to get back to work
maybe relatively quickly maybe in some
areas of manufacturing for instance
there are gonna nonetheless be entire
sectors of the economy and by the way
not little ones either big ones Airlines
you know
you can't expect to have a healthy
airline that depends on half of its
income or more or from overseas travel
which no one's going to be allowing
anytime soon okay
and then you you you reflect that from
sector sector the hotel industry the
cruise industry you know B and B's you
know I just saw something the other day
about some of the Airbnb
you know and different kind of these
groups that allow you to book in other
people's homes who's gonna be using
those so this is gonna be a slow rolling
reopening and it you know it could be
quite some time before where anything
anywhere near back to normal and the
politics of that are that's why I'm
saying we have seven months seven months
I spoke not I spoke earlier this morning
to Senator Portman Rob Portman of Ohio
Democrats likely who knows he said who
knows but Democrats likely to keep the
house because Republicans face so many
more difficult seats in the Senate than
do Democrats the Democrats need to flip
four seats in the Senate and recapture
the White House and the day after
election day we will wake up in a
different country seven months from now
can you get that economy revving again
ken yeah I think it's it's almost
impossible just at this very moment to
look forward and know how any of this is
gonna play out politically it's it's
very very difficult you know look but I
will add one other factor in here that I
think is notable because you mentioned
it earlier about what the White House's
original plan was going to be to talk
about the economy and talk about
socialists well I would point out that
while Bernie Sanders did give a kind of
concession speech this week and kind of
dropped out he didn't really that was
sort of fake news he says he's going to
remain on the ballot on all continuing
primary states and continue to collect
as many delegates as he can and the
purpose of this because we already have
newspapers reporting it is that he is in
negotiations
creations with the Biden's camp about
what aspects of his agenda Biden has to
adopt before Bernie will allow his
people to support by this isn't over at
all
this isn't over and he says he'll go to
the convention so this is all about
extracting pounds of policy flesh from
Joe Biden and they've already put out
their list of demands
he needs to support Medicare for all he
needs to support the green New Deal
he needs to support a 50% reduction in
prison populations
he needs to support free college tuition
a complete forgiveness of all student
loan debt and it's well it's unlikely to
see Biden doing all about he's gonna end
up doing some of it and that is very
dangerous for Joe Biden if you're trying
to get independents disaffected Trump
voters suburban housewives you know this
is a point at which he's supposed to be
pivoting back to the middle and Bernie
made clear this week that his intention
is to make sure there's no pivot and in
fact that Joe Biden becomes just as
unelectable as he was by the way did you
see the Babylon be headline Sanders
withdraws from race because goals of
doubling federal spending and destroying
capitalism already accomplished no I
didn't I shouldn't laugh laugh or cry so
I have I've got a closing question which
I'm lovely closing question but I can't
close just yet do you I don't know how
to articulate this one but Donald Trump
even people who like him can't stand him
up to this point a lot of people the
position of many people has been oh my
goodness do we nevertheless on policy
he's okay he's better than the
alternatives the policy is okay and as
long as we don't have to look at him
it'll be all right is there some sense
maybe in which for the first time the
fate of the ordinary American is linked
to that guy as we go through this
there's some
something this happens to some
presidents but not all to some of course
always to wartime presidents but you
begin to feel I don't like him I don't
but he's my guy
he's the country's guy we need him to
succeed is that sort of is there some
sense in which there's a kind of
deepening of support or beginning of
some kind of attachment to him as a
result of this crisis or am I just
talking romantic not unquantifiable
romantic nonsense no I mean look I think
the phenomenon you described is one that
you would expect to be seeing in a crowd
in a crisis right I think that as with
so many ID issues it comes down to
Donald Trump and it's fundamentally
gonna be up to Donald Trump in that
regard as well to look I look for
instance just my own view I look at
these briefings and when I think they
first started I thought they were a good
idea it made the president look engaged
and they had things you know as they
have gone on and become a little bit
more the Donald Trump show you know and
and the drama of the fights with the
reporters that's not what people want to
be seeing right now okay you know they
want him to get up there deliver the
news send the message that they've got a
handle on what's going on and then let
the rest of the team talk and get on
with it
so I'm not quite sure he can help
himself and you know the thing about
Donald Trump is I don't everyone says
it's about his ego and everything I
think it's more Donald Trump you know he
I think he thinks he's you know fully
engaged in doing the right thing and
being there for the American people and
that sometimes a dividing line between
what Trump wants for Trump and what
Trump is trying to do for everyone else
is is is very murky okay
now we pull back from Donald Trump in
the current crisis let's look let's
expand our thinking raised our thinking
from weeks and quarters even two years
here's Kim Strauss on The Wall Street
Journal on March 19th
the nation's response to the crisis has
been made possible quote by free-market
policies that have under
written three years of economic boom and
put companies on a better footing to
confront hard times if the US is to
overcome this crisis and future ones we
need more of these animal spirits not
less that's the takeaway of this
pandemic more animal spirits not less
are you optimistic well look here's
something that I hope our side as you
were saying embraces we're talking right
now about the threat of bigger
government given all of the spending
we're talking right now about the threat
to the economy and our politics should
certain you know socialist candidates
win in November but what I see here is
also an opportunity for people to
realize the problems of government okay
I mean no one we need to make sure no
one forgets that the reason we're
shutdown is because government shut us
down all right and we need to take a
look around I have been fascinated how
many times over the last three weeks
have we had a story about this or that
agency dismantling a regulation so that
something could proceed more quickly I
think this is an opportunity for us to
ask why they were there in the first
place and are they really serving any
purpose you know maybe we could come out
of this with a healthier view of
government and its problems and maybe
even a smaller more streamlined one if
we if we do things the right way
Kym's Drossel don't stay in alaska too
long
Kimberly Strasse love The Wall Street
Journal thank you thank you for uncommon
knowledge the Hoover Institution and Fox
Nation I'm Peter Robinson
[Music]
you